Changed title to Trainer Training 2020 (#612)
carpentries/carpentries.org: content/professional-development/_index.md

---
title: Short-Format Professional Development
layout: single
---

## Overview 

> Our short-format Professional Development courses help you keep your skills up-to-date for the rapidly evolving digital workplace with focused training in remote collaboration, effective meeting facilitation, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our short-format Professional Development courses help individuals and teams to keep their skills up-to-date for the rapidly evolving digital workplace with focused training in remote collaboration, effective meeting facilitation, and more.
```

Reviewer 2: This language is modelled after our Instructor Training and CLDT pages, which use language like "The training will guide you" and "During the training, you will practise". I'm happy to change this here if you think it reads better, but would want to do the same across our other training pages.

* Maintain repositories by triaging issues, resolving conflicts, and synchronising changes across branches.
* Coordinate work and facilitate decision-making using GitHub’s communication and collaboration tools.

## Running Effective Online Meetings

Running Effective Online Meetings provides practical strategies for facilitating engaging, productive, and inclusive virtual meetings. 
As online collaboration becomes increasingly common across research, education, non-profit, and professional settings, the ability to plan and run meetings that foster participation and drive progress is an essential skill.
This training offers tools for meeting preparation, facilitation, follow-up, and accessibility, emphasising approaches that centre equity and shared leadership. 
Whether leading regular team check-ins, hosting global community calls, or convening ad hoc project groups, this training will help you create virtual spaces that support meaningful collaborations.

### Target audience

This course is intended for anyone responsible for organising and facilitating online meetings in their workplace or community. 
It is particularly relevant for:

> * Team leads, project coordinators, and committee chairs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Team leads, project coordinators, and committee chairs
```

> * Community organisers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Community organisers
```

* Use meeting tools and features (e.g. chat, polls, breakout rooms) to support interaction.
* Document meetings in ways that support transparency and continuity.
* Cultivate a culture of respect, accountability, and shared ownership in virtual spaces.

## Effective Collaboration for Remote Teams

Effective Collaboration on Remote Teams introduces tools and strategies for working productively and inclusively in distributed environments. 
This training focuses on building clarity, trust, and efficiency within remote teams through intentional decision-making, clear zones of responsibility, and thoughtful communication norms. 
Whether your team is fully remote or operating in a hybrid format, this course provides actionable approaches to build a more collaborative team across time zones and working styles.

### Target audience

This course is ideal for team leads and project managers who manage remote or hybrid teams. 
It is particularly relevant for teams that are primarily remote and operate across multiple time zones. 

### What will you learn?

Participants will learn practices that support strong team collaboration, including:

> * Designing and using decision-making frameworks and role definitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Designing and using decision-making frameworks and role definitions.
```

* Establishing clear, inclusive communication norms for asynchronous work.
* Promoting shared ownership, accountability, and psychological safety on distributed teams.

By the end of this training, participants will be able to:

* Apply structured decision-making tools to clarify roles and responsibilities.
* Collaboratively create and implement communication practices that support asynchronous collaboration.
* Identify and address common challenges in remote team dynamics.

## Pricing

Consult our [pricing page](/support/pricing) for our current fee structure.

## Register

Registration link coming soon!

> ## Request an Accommodation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Request Accessibility Support
```

Reviewer 2: See previous comment
